Install / Uninstall PWA: really basic guide (#25550)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/progressive_web_apps/installing/index.md

---
title: Bookmarking, installing, and uninstalling
slug: Web/Progressive_web_apps/Installing
---

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/")}}

> Browsers have always enabled saving shortcuts to websites, known as "bookmarking." Smartphone operating systems (OS) enhanced this capability by enabling saving bookmarks to the home screen with an icon launching the site in the OS's default browser. With [Progressive Web Applications (PWAs)](/en-us/docs/web/progressive_web_apps), web apps can be installed on a user's device, fully integrating into the operating systems like native applications. They can also be uninstalled.

Reviewer: Can you find a way to make it clear that this doesn't only concern mobile devices?
The current phrasing makes me think that it's only possible to install a web app on a mobile device.

Adding a site to the home screen does not install the website on the device. Rather, it adds the developer-defined icon to the home screen, that, when clicked, opens the bookmarked link in the default browser. Removing the icon from the home screen removes the bookmark.

## Installing and uninstalling PWAs

While installing a PWA only takes a couple of clicks, depending on the web application features, the result of installing a PWA usually goes well beyond creating a link to a page on the Internet; installing a PWA actually installs the web application on the user's device.

Depending on the PWA, device, and features of the operating system and browser, installing a PWA may mean installing an essentially fully featured application with operating system integration. This also means uninstalling a PWA, which also only requires a couple of clicks, does more than just removing the PWA's icon.

### Installing PWAs

> The UI for installing a PWA from the web varies from one browser to another, and from one platform to another. For example, a browser might include an "Install" icon in the URL bar when the user navigates to the page:

Reviewer: I think it would be good to add a second example for Chrome on Android which, I think, is a very common place for PWAs to be installed.

![PWA install prompt in URL bar](pwa-install.png)

When the user selects the icon, the browser displays a prompt asking if they want to install the PWA, and if they accept, the PWA is installed.

![PWA installation confirmation prompt](installconfirm.jpg)

> Once installed, the PWA will behave like other applications that are installed on the OS. For example, on MacOS, the icon will appear in the doc, with the same "Keep in dock" options as other applications:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once installed, the PWA will behave like other applications that are installed on the OS. For example, on MacOS, the icon will appear in the dock, with the same "Keep in dock" options as other applications:
```

![PWA icon in the doc on MacOS](dock.jpg)

> Installation is supported on all modern desktop and mobile devices. Whether the PWA can be installed by the browser on the operating system differs by browser / operating system combination. Most browsers support installing PWAs on all operating systems—Chrome OS, MacOS, Windows, Android, Linux, etc.—directly or when an extension is installed. Firefox requires a PWA extension. Apple is unique when it comes to PWAs: PWAs can be installed on macOS from any browser **except** Safari. The opposite is true for iOS, where PWAs can **only** be installed in Safari.

Reviewer: If there's an official extension for Firefox to install PWAs, it would be good to link to it.

Also, consider splitting this paragraph into multiple paragraphs. It's kind of long and may be hard to read entirely. Maybe add an empty line before "Apple is unique".

> When an installed PWA is launched, it may then manifest as in a chromeless view (without the full browser chrome) but it nevertheless is executing effectively as a tab within the browser. The application will be found where the OS saves other applications, within a folder specific to the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an installed PWA is launched, even if it is displayed in a standalone window, it effectively runs just like a tab within a browser. The application will be found where the OS saves other applications, within a folder specific to the browser.
```

The browser used to install the PWA will know the PWA is installed, but other browsers will not have access to the installed status. For example, if you install a PWA using MS Edge, Edge will prompt you to open the PWA when you visit the site while Chrome will continue to prompt you to install the application. If you install the PWA using Chrome as well, you will have two copies of the PWA: one instance in "Chrome Apps" and a separate instance in "Edge Apps". When you launch the PWA, the

### Uninstalling

> When you tap the web app's icon on the home screen, it opens up in the installer browser environment, generally without the browser's UI around it, though that depends on the way the developer configured the manifest. Similarly, the method used to uninstall the PWA depends on the browser that was used to install it.

Reviewer: I *think* what you mean by "installer browser" is "the browser that was used to install this app". It might be worth making this clearer as other people might wonder.

Reviewer: Consider renaming "manifest" to "web app manifest" and linking it to the relevant page on MDN.

> To uninstall a PWA, open the PWA. In the top right corner of the opened app, there will be an icon that must be expanded to see more tools. Depending on the browser used to install the PWA, there will either be a link to uninstall the PWA, or a settings link which will open a browser settings page with an uninstall link. Either click on the `Uninstall <app name>` in the drop down menu, if there, or navigate to the app settings in a browser tab and click unintall.

Reviewer: I don't know if there is the top-right corner icon is the same on mobile. Worth checking.
Also note that on Windows, PWAs appear in the "Add or remove programs" control panel, just like other apps. This might be simpler for people to use.
